docs: add Upholding Code of Conduct document (#1923)
asyncapi/community: docs/onboarding-guide/upholding-code-of-conduct.md

---

> title: Upholding code of conduct for new contributors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Upholding the code of conduct for new contributors
```

> title: Upholding the code of conduct for new contributors

Reviewer 2: From what I see in the [AsyncAPI Code of Conduct](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md), I believe we should be consistent in terms of naming conventions, so it should be "Code of Conduct"

@thulieblack Please correct me if I'm wrong

Reviewer: yes you are correct Anthon

description: This onboarding guide outlines how to uphold the code of conduct document for new contributors
weight: 160
---

# Contributor Guide to Upholding the Code of Conduct

Welcome to the AsyncAPI community! As a contributor, you are an essential part of building a safe, inclusive, and respectful environment for everyone. This guide will help you understand how to follow and uphold our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Why This Matters

> The Code of Conduct (CoC) sets expectations for behaviour in all AsyncAPI spaces, this includes repositories, github discussions, communication platforms (Slack), and online and physical events. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Code of Conduct (CoC) sets expectations for behavior in all AsyncAPI spaces, including repositories, GitHub discussions, communication platforms (such as Slack), and online and physical events. 
```

Following it helps:

- Foster inclusion and belonging
- Prevent and resolve conflicts
- Protect the well-being of all contributors

## Your Responsibilities as a Contributor

- **Be Respectful:** Treat others with kindness and professionalism.
- **Be Inclusive:** Welcome diverse perspectives and backgrounds.
- **Be community-oriented:** Encourage collaboration, help others when you can, and gracefully accept constructive criticism.
- **Speak Up:** If you witness inappropriate behavior, report it.

> You are expected to read and understand the full [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before contributing.

Reviewer 2: I would suggest using the abbreviated version, as you've already made the correct linking with it above 

```suggestion
You are expected to read and understand the full [CoC](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before contributing.
```

## What to Do If You Experience or Witness a Violation

If you experience or observe discrimination, harassment, or any behavior that violates the CoC:

### 1. Document What Happened
- Note what was said or done
- Include context (e.g., link to a GitHub issue, Slack conversation)
- If possible, take a screenshot

### 2. Report the Incident
You can report a CoC violation by:

- Emailing **conduct@asyncapi.io** – this forwards directly to the [Code of Conduct Committee](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/code_of_conduct/code-of-conduct-committee.md)
- Reaching out to a specific CoC Committee member if the issue involves someone on the committee

All reports are handled with confidentiality, respect, and prompt action.

## Conflict Resolution

Not all disagreements are violations. When conflicts happen:

- First, try respectful discussion or ask a neutral contributor to help mediate.

> - If things escalate or become hostile, report the issue to the CoC Committee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the situation escalates or becomes hostile, report the issue to the CoC Committee.
```

> The CoC Committee is trained to resolve conflicts fairly and ensure everyone feels safe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Code of Conduct Committee is trained to resolve conflicts fairly and ensure everyone feels safe.
```
